OK so as I mentioned deleting directories is a little bit trickier than deleting individual files and
that's mainly because a directory could have hundreds or thousands of other files and subdirectories
inside of it.
So the leading a single directory could have tons of repercussions compared to deleting a single file.
So most operating systems are a little more cautious about it.
So there is a command called Aurum dear which I pretty much never use and that's because it only allows
you to delete EMPTY directories using it.
So for example you have an empty directory.
Rusty picks.
So if I cd out into dog photos I could run r.m dear.
Rusty picks and that delete it and it's gone.
Now if I look at why it picks however it's also empty.
But if I added a file LEDs do touch why it picks.
Test XTi.
So it's no longer empty.
If I try an r m dear y it picks it gives me a warning.
Directory is not empty and it did not delete it.
All right.
So that's why I pretty much never use r.m dear because how often do you need to delete an empty directory.
At least in my experience.
Not that often.
So there's another command.
It's actually the same one we've been using which is r.m.
However on its own r.m won't delete a directory so we have to pass a flag just like with ls where we
had the A or the l flag or M has a couple of options we can pass in that will change how it behaves.
So if I just try and do our AM on why it picks right now it tells me hang on why it picture is a directory.
I'm not going to delete that it's still there.
But by passing in this option Dasch are at Santror recursive which basically means go through everything
in this directory and everything in those directories if there's anything else.
Kind of keep burrowing down through all the levels and delete everything instead of why it picks.
In our case it's just a single file but there could be tens of thousands of nested bubbles.
OK so here's an example.
We have the stuff directory we're inside of it and I want to delete cat pics so I do r.m dash Aref and
we'll talk about the F in a moment.
Cat pics.
And it's gone and it's important to note that r.m on its own doesn't work.
We need to pass in at the very least Dasch are so let's do that now so I'll do Ahram dash our why it
picks and there we go it deleted it.
I type ls and it's gone.
So you might be wondering what the dash are.
F is for.
So the dash bar is recursive.
It means delete every subdirectory.
Go down the entire hierarchy and delete it all.
And that usually works.
But there might be some permission errors.
So sometimes I don't know if you've seen this in your computer.
It will pop up and say you know are you sure you want to delete this or you don't have permission to
delete this into your password.
Things like that so you might encounter a permissions error.
If you are not authorized to delete something or you need to confirm that you want to delete something.
Wait hang on.
So real quickly if you care to demonstrate how you could actually come across this exact problem.
So I'm going to start by making a new directory.
I'll just call it testing.
I'm on my desktop by the way and then I'll C.D into testing.
Now I'm just going to make two files so I'll just call them 1.60 and to get to 60.
OK so right now I could just use r m dash r to remove this directory but I'm going to show you a command
that will actually change the permissions.
So if we do an ls dash l remember I was talking about this earlier.
This has to do with reading and writing permissions.
Just noticed what it looks like right now for these two files.
Then command I'm going to show you chmod allows us to change the permission to this file.
So for Dash w the SD with the right permissions and again is a tangent doesn't really matter but I just
want to show you I'm recording this after the fact.
I realized that I kind of just glossed over a real example of how this could happen.
So 1.60 to that text.
Now if I do ls dash L you can see that the W is gone.
So there's no right permission.
So when I go to delete this there isn't permission because the right permission has been revoked.
So if I go back out and it's a testing directory I try and do Ahram dash are testing.
I get this first warning override for testing sashed 1.60.
If I just hit enter it will move to the next morning I hit enter and it will tell me sorry I can do
that so I can either do arm Desch are testing and then type Y.
I think yes it might work as well but why definitely works.
Or no.
And or I can use r m dash r f so I'll do that now.
Arm dash r f testing.
And now it's gone.
OK tangent over.
But if you throw dash F in there it will just force its way through and delete everything and basically
say don't give me warnings and you could verify this.
So here's a little command we haven't seen.
If you type M A and think it stands for manual.
People just call these man pages and then you type the name of a command like r.m.
It gives you BSD general commands manual for r.m So it gives you a synopsis or description.
The r.m utility attempts to remove the non-HD directory type files specified on the command line.
If the permissions the file do not permit writing and the standard pop OK it doesn't matter.
But then there are a couple options we can pass in and as we've seen Dasch are here.
Lowercase r.
It just says it's equivalent to uppercase are and what it does is it attempts to move the file hierarchy
rooted in each file argument.
Blah blah blah and then Frisco Pradesh f c it says according to the manual it attempts to remove the
files without prompting for confirmation.
Regardless of the files permissions.
Long story short.
Most people use dash RF together so r is the important one to actually delete everything in the directory.
An F is just force.
That's the one that says right.
If some problem comes up there's a warning.
Just skip it and just delete it.
I don't want to hear about it.
Don't whine at me so Dasch are commonly used together it to get out of man pages by the way can type
q and there's no evidence that we were ever looking at the menu.
Takes you to it's own little world so we can also do man ls.
And this gives us all the different options you can pass into us.
There's a lot of them.
All right so I'm going to hit Q And let's see.
I'm going to go into dog photos again.
This time it actually is empty so I'm going to make a new file here.
Just going to call it.
Touch me that T.
And then CD back out out of dog photos.
So dog photos now has something in it.
So just one more time.
R.m dear.
Would not work r.m dash are works as as well as Dasch RF and I'm used to just typing Dasch RF any time
I want a delete directory.
So just to be up front about that.
You don't have to use the F but you need the R
and there we go.
All right.
That too.
Deleting directories.
It's a little trickier.
The only thing I would mention about all of this is that you do need to be careful when deleting directories
from your terminal.
You know I could go back here to my home directory or even worse.
OK this would be really bad.
I could go into this directory users and I could do r.m dash R.F. my entire user and by adding to force
it you can ignore all warnings so I could lose everything.
I don't actually know what would happen if it if I did that because I'm currently using this account
on this computer.
I don't know what would happen.
Not going to test it out but just a note included a warning here.
It's somewhat dangerous so be careful because there's no trash there's no undo it's gone.
And on that note very bleak.
That wraps up basics.
The command line content.
Next we have a quick quiz.
Then I promise to move on to Python in.